Java is a programming language used to develop software.
Software is a set of program.
Program- It is a set of instruction.
Java is a Object oriented programming language.
Object defines state and behaviour of the class.
oops can be explained by
1.Inheritance
2.Polymorphism
3.Abstraction
4.Encapsulation (Wraping of data , property or behaviour in a single unit)
Inheritance is the property  by which we access the properties of parent class in child class.
Polymorphism- Achieved by function overloading and function overwriting.

Ecllipse is integrated development environment
Java is non pure OOP language as it uses primitive datatype(float , double) not class.

Printis a memeber of printstream
out is a static member of system
out is object of printstream


For decimal value we use float and double
for integer we use byte short int long
char for character
boolean for true and false


object is a base class of java
String is a class




static is compile time allocation
dynamic is runtime allocation


array in java is defined as
int ar[];
ar=new int [5];
ar.length()

default value during dynamic allocation is 
string->null
int->0

student s1;--->refrence type variable
s1=new student

Constructor is a special type function used to initiallise object of the class
automatically called when object is created
Jvm creates a default constructor when no particular parametrized constructor is created.

Types of variable-
static
global
instance->object level variable
local->within block defined

This keyword refers to current class object. generally used to call instance variable.

Static members have only one memory allocation for all the members

Inheritance in Java:--
Single -- 1 parent and 1 child class
Multilevel-- child of child class
Hierarchial-- More than one child class
Multiple-- more than one parent class

Multiple inheritance by using interface. It doesnt support by class.

Inheritance done using keyword extend.

Access Modifier in Java:
1.Private :- can access within a class
2.Default :- can access within a package any where
3.Protected :- can access within a package anywhere and outside the package by child class object
4.Public :- can access within a package anywhere and outside the package anywhere

Package is a collection of class.

Polymorphism:
Static by function overloading
Dynamic by function Overwriting

Abstract class used for abstraction. Provides 0-100% abstraction. It may have abstract or non abstract method.
Amethod without implemention is called abstract method

Jagged Array